# Using Docker for Canvas Development

_*Instructure employees should use the `inst` CLI. Go [here](./../../inst-cli/doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md) for more info.*_

You can use Docker in your development environment for a more seamless
way to get started developing Canvas.

**Note for previous Docker for Canvas development users**
If you have a `docker-compose.override.yml`, you'll need to update it to version 2 or delete it.

## Automated setup script

The easiest way to get a working development environment is to run:

```
./script/docker_dev_setup.sh
```

This will guide you through the process of building the docker images and setting up Canvas.

If you would rather do things manually, read on! And be sure to check the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section below.

## Recommendations

By default `docker-compose` will look at 2 files
- docker-compose.yml
- docker-compose.override.yml

If you do not specify your own `docker-compose.override.yml` file,
the `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh` (as well as the `./script/docker_dev_update.sh` script) will copy a working
one into the root directory for docker-compose to use.
The `docker-compose.override.yml` file is ignored by git in the `.gitignore` file, so you must provide one or run the
setup script before running docker-compose.

You may manually copy the `config/docker-compose.override.yml.example` to `docker-compose.override.yml` with the following
command: `cp config/docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml`.

Keep in mind copying this manually will overwrite any existing `docker-compose.override.yml` file, whereas the setup
script will not overwrite an existing configuration.
If you need more than what the default override provides you should use a `.env` file to set your `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.

### Create your own local docker-compose overrides file(s)

In order to tweak your local environment (which you may want to do for any of several reasons),
you can create your own [docker-compose overrides file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/).
To get docker-compose to pick up your file and use its settings, you'll want to set an
environment variable `COMPOSE_FILE`.  The place to do this is in a `.env` file.
Create a `docker-compose.local.<username>.yml` and add a `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.
This variable can then have a list of files, separated by `:`.  You need to keep the main docker-compose and docker-compose.override (generated by `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh`) otherwise everything will be ruined.

```bash
echo "COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml" >> .env
```

Setup your user-specific docker-compose override file as an empty file using the following command:

```bash
echo "version: '2.3'" > docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml
```

## Getting Started
After you have [installed the dependencies](getting_docker.md). You'll need to copy
over the required configuration files.

The `docker-compose/config` directory has some config files already set up to use
the linked containers supplied by config. Only copy yamls, not the contents of new-jenkins folder.
You can just copy them to
`config/`:

```
$ cp docker-compose/config/*.yml config/
```

Now you're ready to build all of the containers. This will take a while as a lot is going on here.

- Images are downloaded and built
- Database is created and initial setup is run
- Assets are compiled

First let's get our Mutagen sidecar running.

```bash
docker-compose build --pull
docker-compose up --no-start web
```

Now we can install assets, create and migrate databases.

```bash
docker-compose run --rm web ./script/install_assets.sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:create db:initial_setup
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test
```

Now you should be able to start up and access canvas like you would any other container.
```bash
docker-compose up -d
open http://canvas.docker/
```

## Normal Usage

Normally you can just start everything with `docker-compose up -d` and
access Canvas at http://canvas.docker/

After pulling new code, you'll want to update all your local gems, rebuild your
docker images, pull plugin code, run migrations, and recompile assets. This can
all be done with one command:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh
```

Changes you're making are not showing up? See the Caveats section below.


### With VS Code

First you'll need to enable the specific debug configuration for VSCode by
adding `docker-compose/rdbg.override.yml` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable in the
`.env` file. Example:
```
COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose/rdbg.override.yml
```

Once you have built your container, open the folder in VSCode.
If you don't already have the Dev Containers extension installed, it will prompt you that it is a recommended extension.
Once that is installed, it should prompt you to reopen the folder in the container.
Go ahead and do so.
Debug configurations will already be set up.
You can attach to the currently running web server, or run specs for the currently active spec file.

### Debugging

A Ruby debug server is running in development mode on the web and job containers
to allow you to remotely control any sessions where the debugger has yielded
execution. To use it, you will need to enable `REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED`.
You can easily add it by adding `docker-compose/rdbg.override.yml` to the
`COMPOSE_FILE` variable in the `.env` file. Example:
```
COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose/rdbg.override.yml
```

You can attach to the server once the container is started:

Debugging web:

```
docker-compose exec web bin/rdbg --attach
```

Debugging jobs:

```
docker-compose exec jobs bin/rdbg --attach
```

### Prefer pry?

Unfortunately, you can't start a pry session in a remote debug session. What
you can do instead is use `pry-remote`.

1. Add `pry-remote` to your Gemfile
2. Run `docker-compose exec web bundle install` to install `pry-remote`
3. Add `binding.remote_pry` in code where you want execution to yield a pry REPL
4. Launch pry-remote and have it wait for execution to yield to you:
```
docker-compose exec web pry-remote --wait
```

## Running tests

```
$ docker-compose exec web bundle exec rspec spec
```

## Running javascript tests

First off, there's some general JS testing info in
[testing_javascript.md](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/blob/master/doc/testing_javascript.md).
That will guide you on running JS tests natively.  To run them in docker, read on.

First add `docker-compose/js-tests.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in
`.env`. Then prepare that container with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

If you run into issues with `yarn install`, either during initial setup or after
updating master, try to fix it with a `nuke_node`:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests ./script/nuke_node.sh
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

### QUnit Karma Tests in Headless Chrome

Run all QUnit tests in watch mode with:

```
docker-compose up js-tests
```

Or, if you're iterating on something and want to just run a targeted test file
in watch mode, set the `JSPEC_PATH` env var, e.g.:

```
export JSPEC_PATH=spec/coffeescripts/util/deparamSpec.js
docker-compose up js-tests
```

To run a targeted test without watch mode:

```
docker-compose run --rm -e JSPEC_PATH=spec/coffeescripts/util/deparamSpec.js js-tests yarn test:karma:headless
```

### Jest Tests

Run all Jest tests with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest
```

Or run a targeted subset of tests:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest ui/features/speed_grader/react/__tests__/CommentArea.test.js
```

To run a targeted subset of tests in watch mode, use `test:jest:watch` and
specify the paths to the test files as one or more arguments, e.g.:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest:watch ui/features/speed_grader/react/__tests__/CommentArea.test.js
```

## Selenium

To enable Selenium: Add `docker-compose/selenium.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

For M1 Mac users using Chrome, the official selenium images are not ARM compatible so a standalone chromium image must be used.
In the selenium.override.yml file, replace the image with the following below.

```sh
image: seleniarm/standalone-chromium:latest
```

The container used to run the selenium browser is only started when spinning up
all docker-compose containers, or when specified explicitly. The selenium
container needs to be started before running any specs that require selenium.
Select a browser to run in selenium through config/selenium.yml and then ensure
that only the corresponding browser is configured in selenium.override.yml.

```sh
docker-compose up -d selenium-hub
```

With the container running, you should be able to open a VNC session:

```sh
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumff.docker          (firefox)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumch.docker:5901     (chrome)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumedge.docker:5902   (edge)
```

Now just run your choice of selenium specs:

```sh
docker-compose exec web bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```

### Capturing Rails Logs and Screenshots

When selenium specs fail, the root cause isn't always obvious from the
stdout/stderr of `rspec`. E.g. you might just see an `Uncaught Error: Internal
Server Error`. To see the actual stack trace that led to the 500 response, you
have to look at the rails logs. One way to do that is to just view
`/usr/src/app/log/test.log` after the fact, or `tail -f` it during the run.
Note that the log directory is a non-synchronized volume mount, so you need to
actually view it from inside the `web` container rather than just on your
native host.

But here's a hot tip -- you can capture the portion of the rails log that
corresponds to each failed spec, plus a screenshot of the page at the time of
the failure, by running your specs with the `spec/spec.opts` options like:

```sh
docker-compose exec web bundle exec rspec --options spec/spec.opts spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```

This will produce a `log/spec_failures` directory in the container, which you
can then `docker cp` to your host to view in a browser:

```sh
docker cp "$(docker-compose ps -q web | head -1)":/usr/src/app/log/spec_failures .
open -a "Google Chrome" file:///"$(pwd)"/spec_failures
```

That directory tree contains a web page per spec failure, each featuring a
colorized rails log and a browser screenshot taken at the time of the failure.

## Extra Services

### Cassandra

If you're using the analytics package, you'll also need Cassandra. The
Cassandra configuration isn't enabled by default. Add `docker-compose/cassandra.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`

Then:
- Uncomment configuration in config/cassandra.yml
- See config/cassandra.yml.example for further setup instructions
- to invoke cqlsh as directed in cassandra.yml.example use:
```sh
docker-compose exec cassandra cqlsh
```

### Mail Catcher

To enable Mail Catcher: Add `docker-compose/mailcatcher.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Email is often sent through background jobs if you spin up the `jobs` container.
If you would like to test or preview any notifications, simply trigger the email
through its normal actions, and it should immediately show up in the emulated
webmail inbox available here: http://mail.canvas.docker/

### Canvas RCE API

The Canvas RCE relies on the Canvas RCE API service.

Add `docker-compose/rce-api.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Set `rich-content-service` `app-host` to `"http://rce.canvas.docker:3000"` in `config/dynamic_settings.yml`.
```
rich-content-service:
  app-host: "http://rce.canvas.docker:3000"
```

## Tips

It will likely be helpful to alias the various docker-compose commands like `docker-compose run --rm web` because that can get tiring to type over and over. Here are some recommended aliases you can add to your `~/.bash_profile` and reload your Terminal.

```
alias mc='docker-compose'
alias mcu='docker-compose up'
alias mce='docker-compose exec'
alias mcex='docker-compose exec web bundle exec'
alias mcr='docker-compose run --rm web'
alias mcrx='docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec'
```

Now you can just run commands like `mcex rake db:migrate` or `mcr bundle install`

## Troubleshooting

### Building docker container
If you get an error about some gems requiring a newer ruby, you may have to change `2.4-xenial` to `2.5` in the `FROM` line in Dockerfile.

### Permissions
If you are having trouble running the `web` container, make sure that permissions on the directory are permissive.  You can try the owner change (less disruptive):

```
chown -R 1000:1000 canvas-lms
```

Instead of `1000`, you may need to use `9999` -- the `docker` user inside the container may have uid `9999`.

Or the permissions change (which will make Docker work, but causes the git working directory to become filthy):

```
chmod a+rwx -R canvas-lms
```

If your distro is equipped with [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux),
make sure it is not interfering.

```
$ sestatus
...
Current mode:                   disabled
...

```

If so, it can be disabled temporarily with:

```
sudo setenforce 0
```

Or it can be disabled permanently by editing `/etc/selinux/config` thusly:

```
SELINUX=disabled
```

### Performance
If you are having performance or other issues with your web container
starting up, you may try adding `DISABLE_SPRING: 1` to your
`docker-compose.override.yml` file, like so:

```
web: &WEB
  environment:
    DISABLE_SPRING: 1
```

Sometimes, very poor performance (or not loading at all) can be due to webpack
problems. Running
`docker-compose exec web bundle exec rake canvas:compile_assets` again, or
`docker-compose exec web bundle exec rake js:webpack_development` again, may help.


### DNS
If you are getting DNS resolution errors, and you use Docker Desktop or Linux,
make sure [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) is running:

```
dory status
```

If dory is not running, you can start it with:

```
dory up
```

Alternatively, you can use Dinghy-http-proxy or Traefik to handle DNS resolution.
