doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md, before:

# Using Docker for Canvas Development

You can use Docker in your development environment for a more seamless
way to get started developing Canvas.

**Note for previous Docker for Canvas development users**
If you have a `docker-compose.override.yml`, you'll need to update it to version 2 or delete it.

## Automated setup script

The easiest way to get a working development environment is to run:

```
./script/docker_dev_setup.sh
```

This will guide you through the process of installing docker, dinghy/dory,
building the docker images, and setting up Canvas.

If you would rather do things manually, read on!

## Recommendations

By default `docker-compose` will look at 2 files
- docker-compose.yml
- docker-compose.override.yml

If you need more than what the default override provides you should use a `.env` file to set your `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.

### Create your own local docker-compose overrides file(s)

In order to tweak your local environment (which you may want to do for any of several reasons),
you can create your own [docker-compose overrides file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/).
To get docker-compose to pick up your file and use its settings, you'll want to set an
environment variable `COMPOSE_FILE`.  The place to do this is in a `.env` file.
Create a `docker-compose.local.<username>.yml` and add a `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.
This variable can then have a list of files, separated by `:`.  You need to keep the main docker-compose and docker-compose.override otherwise everything will be ruined.

```bash
echo "COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml" >> .env
```

Setup your user-specific docker-compose override file as an empty file using the following command:

```bash
echo "version: '2'" > docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml
```

## Getting Started
After you have [installed the dependencies](getting_docker.md). You'll need to copy
over the required configuration files.

The `docker-compose/config` directory has some config files already set up to use
the linked containers supplied by config. You can just copy them to
`config/`:

```
$ cp docker-compose/config/* config/
```

Now you're ready to build all of the containers. This will take a while as a lot is going on here.

- Images are downloaded and built
- Database is created and initial setup is run
- Assets are compiled

```bash
docker-compose run --rm web bundle install
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:create db:initial_setup canvas:compile_assets_dev
```

Now you should be able to start up and access canvas like you would any other container.
```bash
docker-compose up
open http://web.canvaslms.docker
```

## Normal Usage

Normally you can just start everything with `docker-compose up`, and
access Canvas at http://web.canvaslms.docker/.

After pulling new code, you'll want to update all your local gems, rebuild your
docker images, pull plugin code, run migrations, and recompile assets. This can
all be done with one command:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh
```

Note that this command will pull `master` and all plugin code by default. If you
want to update without switching from your local `HEAD`, run:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh -n code
```

Changes you're making are not showing up? See the Caveats section below.
Ctrl-C your `docker-compose up` window and restart.

## Debugging

### Byebug

A byebug server is running in development mode on the web and job containers
to allow you to remotely control any sessions where `byebug` has yielded
execution. To use it, you will need to enable `REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED` in your
`docker-compose.<user>.override.yml` file in your app's root directory. If you don't have
this file, you will need to create it and add the following:

```
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    environment:
      REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED: 'true'
```

Make sure you add this new file to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

You can attach to the byebug server once the container is started:

Debugging web:

```
docker-compose exec web bin/byebug-remote
```

Debugging jobs:

```
docker-compose exec jobs bin/byebug-remote
```

### Prefer pry?

Unfortunately, you can't start a pry session in a remote byebug session. What
you can do instead is use `pry-remote`.

1. Add `pry-remote` to your Gemfile
2. Run `docker-compose run --rm web bundle install` to install `pry-remote`
3. Add `binding.remote_pry` in code where you want execution to yield a pry REPL
4. Launch pry-remote and have it wait for execution to yield to you:
```
docker-compose exec web pry-remote --wait
```

## Running tests

```
$ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec
```

## Running javascript tests

To run tests in headless Chrome, add the `docker-compose/js-tests.override.yml`
to the `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable in your .env, and run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm js-tests
```

### Selenium

To enable Selenium: Add `docker-compose/selenium.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

The container used to run the selenium browser is only started when spinning up
all docker-compose containers, or when specified explicitly. The selenium
container needs to be started before running any specs that require selenium.

```sh
docker-compose up selenium-firefox # or selenium-chrome
```

With the container running, you should be able to open a VNC session:

```sh
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumff.docker          (firefox)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumch.docker:5901     (chrome)
```

Now just run your choice of selenium specs:

```sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```


## Extra Services

### Cassandra

If you're using the analytics package, you'll also need Cassandra. The
Cassandra configuration isn't enabled by default. Add `docker-compose/cassandra.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`

Then:
- Uncomment configuration in config/cassandra.yml
- See config/cassandra.yml.example for further setup instructions
- to invoke cqlsh as directed in cassandra.yml.example use:
```sh
docker-compose exec cassandra cqlsh
```

### Mail Catcher

To enable Mail Catcher: Add `docker-compose/mailcatcher.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Email is often sent through background jobs if you spin up the `jobs` container.
If you would like to test or preview any notifications, simply trigger the email
through its normal actions, and it should immediately show up in the emulated
webmail inbox available here: http://mail.canvas.docker/

## Tips

It will likely be helpful to alias the various docker-compose commands like `docker-compose run --rm web` because that can get tiring to type over and over. Here are some recommended aliases you can add to your `~/.bash_profile` and reload your Terminal.

```
alias dc='docker-compose'
alias dcu='docker-compose up'
alias dcr='docker-compose run --rm web'
alias dcrx='docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec'
```

Now you can just run commands like `dcrx rake db:migrate` or `dcr bundle install`

## Troubleshooting

If you are having trouble running the `web` container, make sure that permissions on the directory are permissive.  You can try the owner change (less disruptive):

```
chown -R 1000:1000 canvas-lms
```

Or the permissions change (which will make Docker work, but causes the git working directory to become filthy):

```
chmod a+rwx -R canvas-lms
```

If your distro is equipped with [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux),
make sure it is not interfering.

```
$ sestatus
...
Current mode:                   disabled
...

```

If so, it can be disabled temporarily with:

```
sudo setenforce 0
```

Or it can be disabled permanently by editing `/etc/selinux/config` thusly:

```
SELINUX=disabled
```

If you are having performance or other issues with your web container
starting up, you may try adding `DISABLE_SPRING: 1` to your
`docker-compose.override.yml` file, like so:

```
web: &WEB
  environment:
    DISABLE_SPRING: 1
```

If you are getting DNS resolution errors, and you use Docker for Mac or Linux,
make sure [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) is running:

```
dory status
```

If dory is not running, you can start it with:

```
dory up
```

Commit message:

Update docker docs -- common problems
problems encountered by me

Test plan:
- none necessary unless you want to view it in gitiles browse

refs HACKWEEK-EBATTAGLIA

Change-Id: Ie10638fa03cc9c85a1d4b66ef7b677e85da307f6
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/213678
Tested-by: Jenkins
Reviewed-by: Xander Moffatt <xmoffatt@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Xander Moffatt <xmoffatt@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Xander Moffatt <xmoffatt@instructure.com>

doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md, after:

# Using Docker for Canvas Development

You can use Docker in your development environment for a more seamless
way to get started developing Canvas.

**Note for previous Docker for Canvas development users**
If you have a `docker-compose.override.yml`, you'll need to update it to version 2 or delete it.

## Automated setup script

The easiest way to get a working development environment is to run:

```
./script/docker_dev_setup.sh
```

This will guide you through the process of installing docker, dinghy/dory,
building the docker images, and setting up Canvas.

If you would rather do things manually, read on! And be sure to check the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section below.

## Recommendations

By default `docker-compose` will look at 2 files
- docker-compose.yml
- docker-compose.override.yml

If you need more than what the default override provides you should use a `.env` file to set your `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.

### Create your own local docker-compose overrides file(s)

In order to tweak your local environment (which you may want to do for any of several reasons),
you can create your own [docker-compose overrides file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/).
To get docker-compose to pick up your file and use its settings, you'll want to set an
environment variable `COMPOSE_FILE`.  The place to do this is in a `.env` file.
Create a `docker-compose.local.<username>.yml` and add a `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.
This variable can then have a list of files, separated by `:`.  You need to keep the main docker-compose and docker-compose.override otherwise everything will be ruined.

```bash
echo "COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml" >> .env
```

Setup your user-specific docker-compose override file as an empty file using the following command:

```bash
echo "version: '2'" > docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml
```

## Getting Started
After you have [installed the dependencies](getting_docker.md). You'll need to copy
over the required configuration files.

The `docker-compose/config` directory has some config files already set up to use
the linked containers supplied by config. You can just copy them to
`config/`:

```
$ cp docker-compose/config/* config/
```

Now you're ready to build all of the containers. This will take a while as a lot is going on here.

- Images are downloaded and built
- Database is created and initial setup is run
- Assets are compiled

```bash
docker-compose run --rm web bundle install
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:create db:initial_setup canvas:compile_assets
```

Now you should be able to start up and access canvas like you would any other container.
```bash
docker-compose up
open http://web.canvaslms.docker
```

## Normal Usage

Normally you can just start everything with `docker-compose up`, and
access Canvas at http://web.canvaslms.docker/.

After pulling new code, you'll want to update all your local gems, rebuild your
docker images, pull plugin code, run migrations, and recompile assets. This can
all be done with one command:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh
```

Note that this command will pull `master` and all plugin code by default. If you
want to update without switching from your local `HEAD`, run:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh -n code
```

Changes you're making are not showing up? See the Caveats section below.
Ctrl-C your `docker-compose up` window and restart.

## Debugging

### Byebug

A byebug server is running in development mode on the web and job containers
to allow you to remotely control any sessions where `byebug` has yielded
execution. To use it, you will need to enable `REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED` in your
`docker-compose.<user>.override.yml` file in your app's root directory. If you don't have
this file, you will need to create it and add the following:

```
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    environment:
      REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED: 'true'
```

Make sure you add this new file to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

You can attach to the byebug server once the container is started:

Debugging web:

```
docker-compose exec web bin/byebug-remote
```

Debugging jobs:

```
docker-compose exec jobs bin/byebug-remote
```

### Prefer pry?

Unfortunately, you can't start a pry session in a remote byebug session. What
you can do instead is use `pry-remote`.

1. Add `pry-remote` to your Gemfile
2. Run `docker-compose run --rm web bundle install` to install `pry-remote`
3. Add `binding.remote_pry` in code where you want execution to yield a pry REPL
4. Launch pry-remote and have it wait for execution to yield to you:
```
docker-compose exec web pry-remote --wait
```

## Running tests

```
$ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec
```

## Running javascript tests

To run tests in headless Chrome, add the `docker-compose/js-tests.override.yml`
to the `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable in your .env, and run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm js-tests
```

### Selenium

To enable Selenium: Add `docker-compose/selenium.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

The container used to run the selenium browser is only started when spinning up
all docker-compose containers, or when specified explicitly. The selenium
container needs to be started before running any specs that require selenium.

```sh
docker-compose up selenium-firefox # or selenium-chrome
```

With the container running, you should be able to open a VNC session:

```sh
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumff.docker          (firefox)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumch.docker:5901     (chrome)
```

Now just run your choice of selenium specs:

```sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```


## Extra Services

### Cassandra

If you're using the analytics package, you'll also need Cassandra. The
Cassandra configuration isn't enabled by default. Add `docker-compose/cassandra.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`

Then:
- Uncomment configuration in config/cassandra.yml
- See config/cassandra.yml.example for further setup instructions
- to invoke cqlsh as directed in cassandra.yml.example use:
```sh
docker-compose exec cassandra cqlsh
```

### Mail Catcher

To enable Mail Catcher: Add `docker-compose/mailcatcher.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Email is often sent through background jobs if you spin up the `jobs` container.
If you would like to test or preview any notifications, simply trigger the email
through its normal actions, and it should immediately show up in the emulated
webmail inbox available here: http://mail.canvas.docker/

## Tips

It will likely be helpful to alias the various docker-compose commands like `docker-compose run --rm web` because that can get tiring to type over and over. Here are some recommended aliases you can add to your `~/.bash_profile` and reload your Terminal.

```
alias dc='docker-compose'
alias dcu='docker-compose up'
alias dcr='docker-compose run --rm web'
alias dcrx='docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec'
```

Now you can just run commands like `dcrx rake db:migrate` or `dcr bundle install`

## Troubleshooting

### Building docker container
If you get an error about some gems requiring a newer ruby, you may have to change `2.4-xenial` to `2.5` in the `FROM` line in Dockerfile.

### Permissions
If you are having trouble running the `web` container, make sure that permissions on the directory are permissive.  You can try the owner change (less disruptive):

```
chown -R 1000:1000 canvas-lms
```

Instead of `1000`, you may need to use `9999` -- the `docker` user inside the container may have uid `9999`.

Or the permissions change (which will make Docker work, but causes the git working directory to become filthy):

```
chmod a+rwx -R canvas-lms
```

If your distro is equipped with [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux),
make sure it is not interfering.

```
$ sestatus
...
Current mode:                   disabled
...

```

If so, it can be disabled temporarily with:

```
sudo setenforce 0
```

Or it can be disabled permanently by editing `/etc/selinux/config` thusly:

```
SELINUX=disabled
```

### Performance
If you are having performance or other issues with your web container
starting up, you may try adding `DISABLE_SPRING: 1` to your
`docker-compose.override.yml` file, like so:

```
web: &WEB
  environment:
    DISABLE_SPRING: 1
```

Sometimes, very poor performance (or not loading at all) can be due to webpack
problems. Running
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake canvas:compile_assets` again, or
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake js:webpack_development` again, may help.


### DNS
If you are getting DNS resolution errors, and you use Docker for Mac or Linux,
make sure [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) is running:

```
dory status
```

If dory is not running, you can start it with:

```
dory up
```

Alternatively, you can use Dinghy or Traefik to handle DNS resolution.
